GAME PRODUCED BY ANEESH SABA
MONOPOLY INSTRUCTIONS

THE GAME: It is a two player text based, turn based board game where you input the moves into the keyboard
          and most importantly, make sure to have fun!

OBJECTIVE: The object of the game is to become the
wealthiest player through buying, renting and selling
property.

THE PLAY: Starting with the Banker, each player in turn throws the dice.
The player with the highest total starts the play: Place your
token on the corner marked "GO," throw the dice and move
your token in the direction of the arrow the number of
spaces indicated by the dice. After you have completed
your play, the turn passes to the other player. The tokens remain
on the spaces occupied and proceed from that point on
the player's next turn. Two tokens may rest on the
same space at the same time.

According to the space your token reaches, you may be entitled to
buy real estate or other properties or obliged to pay rent, pay taxes,
draw a Chance card, "Go to Jail," etc.

"GO": Each time a player's token lands on or passes over
GO, whether by throwing the dice or drawing a card,
the Banker pays him/ther a $200 salary.
The $200 is paid only once each time around
the board. However, if a player passing GO on
the throw of the dice lands
on Chance, and draws the "Advance to GO" card, he/she collects
$200 for passing GO the first time and another $200 for reaching it the
second time by instructions on the card.

BUYING PROPERTY: Whenever you land on an unowned property you
may buy that property from the Bank at its printed price. 

PAYING When you land on property owned by another player,
the owner collects rent from you in accordance with the list printed on
its Title Deed card.
If the property is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. 

It is an advantage to hold all the Title Deed cards in a color group (e.g., Boardwalk and Park Place; or Connecticut, Vermont and
Oriental Avenues) because the owner may then charge double rent
for unimproved properties in that color-group. This rule applies to
unmortgaged properties even if another property in that color-group is
mortgaged.
It is even more advantageous to have houses or hotels on properties
because rents are much higher than for unimproved properties.

The owner may not collect the rent if he/she fails to ask for it before
the second player following throws the dice.
"CHANCE": When you land on this space, take the top card from the deck indicated, follow the 
instructions and return the card facedown to the bottom of the deck.
The "Get Out of Jail Free" card is held until used and then returned to
the bottom of the deck. 

"INCOME TAX": You pay $200 to the bank

"JAIL": You land in Jail when... your token lands on the space
marked "Go to Jail"; 

When you are sent to Jail you cannot
collect your $200 salary in that move
since, regardless of where your token
is on the board, you must move it
directly into Jail. Your turn ends when
you are sent to Jail.
If you are not "sent" to Jail but in the ordinary course of play land on
that space, you are "Just Visiting," you incur no penalty, and you move
ahead in the usual manner on your next turn.
You get out of Jail by.. .(I) throwing doubles on any of your next
three turns; if you succeed in doing this you immediately move forward
the number of spaces shown by your doubles throw (2) using the "Get
Out of Jail Free" card if you have it; (3) purchasing the "Get Out of Jail
Free" card from another player and playing it; (4) paying a fine of $50
before you roll the dice on either of your next two turns.
If you do not throw doubles by your third turn, you must pay the $50
fine. You then get out of Jail and immediately move forward the number
of spaces shown by your throw.
Even though you are in Jail, you may buy and sell property, buy and
sell houses and hotels and collect rents. 

"FREE PARKING": A player landing on this place does not
receive any money, property or reward of any kind. This is just a "free"
resting place.

HOUSES: When you own all the properties in a color group
you may buy houses from the Bank and erect them on those properties.
If you buy one house, you may put it on any
one of those properties. The next house you
buy must be erected on one of the unimproved
properties of this or any other complete color group you may own.
The price you must pay the Bank for each
house is shown on your Title Deed card for the
property on which you erect the house.
The owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on
the unimproved properties of his/her complete color-group.
Following the above rules, you may buy and erect at any time as
many houses as your judgement and financial standing will allow. But
you must build evenly, i.e., you cannot erect more than one house on
any one property of any color-group until you have built one house on
Every property of that group. You may then begin on the second row
of houses, and so on, up to a limit of four houses to a property. For
example, you cannot build three houses on one property if you have
only one house on another property of that group.
As you build evenly, you must also break down evenly if you sell
houses back to the Bank (see SELLING PROPERTY).
HOTELS: When a player has four houses on each property of a
complete color-group, he/she may buy a hotel from the Bank and erect
it on any property of the color-group. He/she returns the four houses
from that property to the Bank and pays the price for the hotel as shown
on the Title Deed card. Only one hotel may be erected on any one
property.

BUILDING SHORTAGES: When the Bank has no houses to sell, players
wishing to build must wait for some player to return or sell his/her
houses to the Bank before building. If there are a limited number of
houses and hotels available and two or more players wish to buy more
than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be sold at auction to the
highest bidder. 

SELLING PROPERTY: Unimproved properties, railroads and utilities
(but not buildings) may be sold to any player as a private transaction
for any amount the owner can get; however, no property can be sold to -
another player if buildings are standing on any properties of that color group. 
Any buildings so located must be sold back to the Bank before
the owner can sell any property of that color-group.
Houses and hotels may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one half the price paid for them.
All houses on one color-group must be sold one by one, evenly, in
reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
All hotels on one color-group may be sold at once, or they may be
sold one house at a time (one hotel equals five houses), evenly, in
reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
MORTGAGES: Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the
Bank at any time. Before an improved property can be mortgaged, all
the buildings on all the properties of its color-group must be sold back
to the Bank at half price. The mortgage value is printed on each Title
Deed card.

No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities,
but rent can be collected on unmortgaged properties in the
same group.

In order to lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the Bank the
amount of the mortgage . When all the properties of
a color-group are no longer mortgaged, the owner may begin to buy
back houses at full price.

The player who mortgages property retains possession of it and
no other player may secure it by lifting the mortgage from the Bank.
However, the owner may sell this mortgaged property to another player
at any agreed price. If you are the new owner, you may lift the mortgage
at once if you wish by paying off the mortgage . 

BANKRUPTCY.. You are declared bankrupt if you owe more than you
can pay either to another player or to the Bank. If your 
debt is to another player, you must turn over to that
player all that you have of value and retire from the
game. In making this settlement, if you own houses or
hotels, you must return these to the Bank in exchange
for money to the extent of one-half the amount paid
for them; this cash is given to the creditor. If you have
Mortgaged property, it is still mortgaged when transferred over
To the other player until the other player decides to unmortgage the property
Should you owe the Bank, instead of another player, more than you
can pay (because of taxes or penalties) even by selling off buildings
and mortgaging property, you must turn over all assets to the Bank. 
The last player left in the game wins.

MISCELLANEOUS: Money can be loaned to a player only by the Bank
and then only by mortgaging property. No player may borrow from or
lend money to another player. 